all right so this is an update on the
whole kind of trench the water-saving
trench kind of gardening system if you
want to see a video on how I actually
built and how I went about it click on
this little annotation here open a new
tab as well for you so basically things
are going really well but there's a huge
amount of array of little problems that
I'm having because of course I'm growing
just in sand but in 30 days 30 days from
sowing the seed to actually now it's
grown about two feet in some place it's
just incredible anyway let's take a
closer look right I want to talk about
the problems first obviously you know
having grown this in 30 days it's
amazing you know but I also want to
teach the kind of problems that I'm
having so we all can learn from it and
basically problem number one is that
when you grow in just sand and I'm not
even talking about salmon soy just grow
in pure sand and I do that on the
grounds that I add some compost but if
you grow and just sand when it rains it
becomes pretty much like quicksand and
that means that the plants are going to
fall over now sweet corn of course being
a very tall plant and we're of course
fall over and if it if it kind of rocks
around a lot that means it's going to
get stressed and any plant that gets
stressed whether through drought under
watering over watering can be stressful
none of nutrients shaking about too much
at the roots and what can happen is that
it gets stress and it goes to seed early
and of course we don't want that because
we don't get any proper crops especially
with the Suika
so problem that's problem number one
solution of course is I put a stake on
either side and I put a string on either
side of the sweet corn and that's kind
of holding them in place now and I can
also of course twist the string at some
point when they get thicker or taller
and tie maybe another string across as
well and
hold them in place now the second
problem brings me on to this lovely bed
that I showed you also as a kind of an
example and the first video you can see
of course I have to do the kind of a
climbing structure around the the beans
because I planted the beans when the
sweet corn was about that high and
normally that is enough because beans
are much slower compared to the sweet
corn in the West then they would be in
the tropics now in the tropics they just
grow like crazy the beans so they really
outgrow this week on so there's all kind
of three sister thing in the tropics is
much more of a challenge because you
need to wait until it and this week
comes at least two feet well that's why
you can actually plant your beans now
this brings going to my my real problem
which is lack of magnesium and probably
boron as well in the actual sandy soil
that's quite common with sandy soil is
that these nutrients are actually
missing and in order to remedy that I've
taken just yesterday I got some epsom
salts I'm going to spray some of that
onto the leaves and I'm also going to
water the sauce is pure magnesium so
that should but they're making flowers
already
so if I can just get a few beans from
these Madeira gonna be I mean beans
coming beans then I will actually be
doing really well and I can start again
toys that have some clay added and that
is basically the real fixes to have well
broken down compass back to the whole
thing but I didn't have it right what's
with the pink netting now I wanted to
talk about two more things as well
before I get onto problem number three
first of all I did have some beans
planted in here as part of the three
sister thing but they would have been
already that high and of course I didn't
want to do the whole and kind of
structure thing again so I just kind of
pulled them all out put them on the
surface here they already gone rotting
away very fast in this in this traffic's
now
second thing I want to talk about is I
had some spare pumpkins so I stuck them
in there we have this orange beetle
pumpkin beetle and basically with the
three sisters they they munched them all
away
they eat the leaves the roots the
pumpkins it's Earth Day Eve need that so
this one I don't know how it survived
but I can't envision it doing much it's
been that size for the last I don't know
two to three weeks so I can't see it
doing much hence my reason for planting
them all on this cover and they kind of
doing all right but this one is also you
know sent to like magnesium as well so
I'm gonna have to put some magnesium in
there and these ones are doing pretty
good so just a way of protecting them
from this Peter wow it's hot so the
problem is due to stress these guys are
actually tussling up too soon and that
means basically that they're growing
these tassels at the top which is where
the more male pollen actually is
produced and when that happens too soon
it's not good because it kind of shows
that the plant wants to go to sea too
soon and they haven't informed
crops yet and this won't be a problem
because they're still going to grow a
good bit before the tassel actually
grows but usually it happens at about 3
to 4 feet right and these are about 2
feet high so it's happening a bit too
soon but as I said they will still be
okay
they will still make up smaller cups I
still get seeds which is what I'm about
and maybe next time I'm growing them I
can actually get bigger cups and make
them you know the plants and then it
still will be there but I might be able
to get
35 days and already this margin I'm
gonna do another date soon so I hope you
enjoyed the video and as always thanks
for watching and it's way too hard to be
out here talking you guys I'm coming up
I'm gonna have a cool lemon lemonade or
something
thanks for watching